Guidelines for schedule preparation 
 
 
When preparing the project schedule using Gantt Chart, you may follow either steps in 
traditional software development life cycle (eg. Preliminary analysis, Systems 
requirements analysis, Systems design, Development/ Implementation, Integration and 
testing, Deployment) or the steps in Rational Unified Process (RUP) (eg.   
Elaboration, Construction, Transition) as the main activities.  
Inception, 
Under each main activity, you have to indicate the sub activities that will occur during the 
software development process including document preparation.  

Draw a Gantt chart using an available tool (eg. Microsoft Project, Open Project, Gantt 
Project, etc ). Better to select a tool that allows saving the Gantt chart as an image or pdf. 
Otherwise, if you capture the screen (screen shot), the image may not be clear; images 
with high resolution may not properly fit into the landscape page layout. 
The activities should cover all the stages in the software development life cycle. Each 
activity can be subdivided into several sub activities. (in detail) Maintain the order of 
activities. 
Name the activities as specific to your project. Do not use more generic names under each 
activity. When you name the sub activities under a given phase, name it in a meaningful 
way. (eg. instead of having an activity called “coding”, you can have more specific sub 
activities. ) 
Included some tasks for document preparation (SRS, design doc, test plan, final report, 
paper, etc) as well; consider the required deliverables given in Moodle course page.  
Since these activities are the things you do during your project development, name the 
activities using verb form (a word or phrase that describes an action; not nouns) .  
Activities can be overlapped over the time. There is no need to start an activity ONLY 
after finishing the previous activity. That is you may work on several sub activities 
simultaneously. (Eg. you can do some testing while implementing some part) 
The time duration of the schedule is from the beginning of March to end of June; check for 
the dates in your academic calendar and the dates of deliverables given in Moodle course 
page.  
Avoid allocating only one day for some activities. Because in some cases there can be 
unknown risks/ failure while you are developing the project. So always better to allocate 
few days per activity. 
Upload a pdf document (one page is preferred; 2 pages maximum, landscape page layout) 
with the Gantt chat ( name it with your index number followed by “GanttChart”.  
Comparison of traditional software development and RUP.  
Transition phase is somewhat similar as the deployment stage in traditional SDLC. It 
transfers the product from the development environment to actual product environment.  
So some of the activities would be, configuring the product in client’s env., beta testing (with 
users) for system validation, user training, maintenance.  